1.1 

1. Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) security architecture :
    - provides a systematic framework for defining security attacks, 
      mechanisms and services.
2. Security Attacks : 
      passive attacks: like unauthorized reading of a message of file and 
                traffic analysis or 
      active ``: modification of messages or files, DOS

3. Security Mechanism : any process that is designed to detect, prevent or 
          recover from a security attack. 
          like - encryption algorithms, digital signatures, and authentication protocols.

4. Security services : include authentication, access control, data 
          confidentiality, data integrity, non-repudiation, and availability.


COMPUTER SECURITY : The protection afforded to an automated information system
          in order to attain the applicable objectives of preserving the 
          integrity, availability, and confidentiality of information system
          resources (includes hardware, software, firmware, information/data,
          and telecommunications)

The Key Objectives :  CIA

1. Confidentiality - 
    a) Data confidentiality - assures that private or confidential info. is
                      not made available or disclosed to unauthorized individuals.

    b) Privacy - Assures that individuals control or influence
                  what info related to them may be collected and stored by 
                  whom annd to whom that info. may be disclosed.
2. Integrity - 
    a) Data Integrity - Assueres that info. and programs are changed only in 
                  a specified and authorized manner.
    b) System Integrity - Assures that a system performs its intended function
                  in an unimpaired manner, free from deliberate or inadvertent
                  unauthorized manipulation of the system.

3. Availability - 
    assures - systems work promptly and service is not denied to authorized users.

above is well established, but some in the security field felt the need 
of these two more

4. Authenticity : Property of being genuine and being able to be verified and 
            trusted; confidence in the validity of a transmission, a message,
            or message originator.

5. Accountability: 
      The security goal that generates the requirement for actions of an
      entity to be traced uniquely to that entity. This supports 
      non-repudiation, deterrence, fault isolation, intrusion detection 
      and prevention, after-action recovery and legal action.

    later use for forensic analysis.

Examples on 
- Confidentiality : Student's grade info
- Integrity : doctor must trust the data
- Availability : stock market prices n all


Threat : A potential for violation of security, 

          which exists when there is a circumstance, capability, action or
          event that could breach security and cause harm. 

      vvi - Threat is a possible danger that might exploit a vulnerability.

Attack : An assault on system security that derives from an intelligent threat;
          that is, an intelligent act that is deliberate attempt
          (especially in the sense of a method or technique) to evade
          security services and violate the security policy of a system.

Passive attacks : 

Active attacks : 

Masquerade - 

Replay - 

Modification of messages -

Denial of Service (DoS) -

-------------------------------------------------------
Authentication            vs          Data Integrity
-------------------------------------------------------
Authen